README.md, before:

#### imaging_diagnosis: NOT FOR CLINICAL USE

### COVID-19 X-Rays PREDICTOR
Project Summary: to use X-Ray lung images to detect COVI-19 positive cases using Machine Learning. 

Deep learning techniques for image analysis and classification Xray images can be used to spot anomalies and aid health personel in the diagnosis. 

##  the work in here is purelly exploratory and IT IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSES. 

![](images/SARS-CoV-2_without_background.png)

By CDC/ Alissa Eckert, MS; Dan Higgins, MAM - from CDC (https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=86444014)



## Requirements
The main requirements are listed below:

- Tested with Tensorflow 
- OpenCV 4.2.0
- Python 3.6
- Numpy
- Scikit-Learn
- Matplotlib

Additional requirements to generate dataset:

- PyDicom
- Pandas
- Jupyter/CoLab

## Data
In ML good quality data is key. The datasets are contructed from:

- https://github.com/ieee8023/covid-chestxray-dataset
- https://www.kaggle.com/c/rsna-pneumonia-detection-challenge (which came from: https://nihcc.app.box.com/v/ChestXray-NIHCC)

The date set were fetched by cloning the github repository and dowloading the rsna pneumonia dataset. 
For this purpose the datasets were dowloaded to Google Drive. Those two those datasets were then combined into a directory with covid x-rays and non-covid x-rays. 

## PROCESSING

 - 1 Build a normal and covid-19 xray datasets 
 - 2 Preprocess data by changing color and reshaping to (224,224) , default input size for the model
 - 3 Normalizing for deep learning and perform one-hot 
 - 4 Build the train and the test sets 


## MODELING 

Create a Convolutional Neural Network using Keras, TensorFlow and deep learning in Google Colab. 

- 1 load the VGG16 network https://keras.io/applications/#vgg16
- 2 model is compiled using Adam optimizer and fit using 10 epocs

 ![](images/Training.PNG)

## EVALUATION AND PREDICTION

- 1 Model was tested with unseen data with a precission of 96% 
- 2 The model was saved using HDF5 binary format

![](images/ClassReport.PNG)

The model has an accuracy of 96% based only on x-ray images and no other feature. Sensitivity of 96 % and specificity of 95% means that from patients that HAVE COVID-19 the model accurately identify them as positive in 96% of the cases. From patients that do NOT HAVE COVID-19, the model identified as covid negative 96 % of the time. 

As always how good or bad is any diagnosis tool depends on the context that is used. In this case it will be really bad if the model missed a covid-19 positive and goes home thinking is negative and spreads the infection further. 
loss: 0.2678 - accuracy: 0.9565

## IMPORT AND CHECK YOUR OWN XRAY IMAGES

The last part is meand to check how good is with new data. 
1 I dowloaded some images on my Google Drive 
2 load, image preprocess (color conversion, re-sizing, scaling)
3 re-shaping array 
4 prediction  
In our case it was able to predict positive to a image that actually was positive!!!






Credits
This notebook is based on-  https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2020/03/16/detecting-covid-19-in-x-ray-images-with-keras-tensorflow-and-deep-learning/
and this paper  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.09871v3.pdf


## Contact

* Marina Marinkovic: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinamarinkovic/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/MPdeM)

Commit message:

schema , readme, model and data folder

README.md, after:

#### imaging_diagnosis: NOT FOR CLINICAL USE

### COVID-19 X-Rays PREDICTOR
Project Summary: to use X-Ray lung images to detect COVI-19 positive cases using Machine Learning. 

Deep learning techniques for image analysis and classification Xray images can be used to spot anomalies and aid health personel in the diagnosis. 

##  the work in here is purelly exploratory and IT IS NOT INTENDED FOR DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSES. 

![](images/SARS-CoV-2_without_background.png)

By CDC/ Alissa Eckert, MS; Dan Higgins, MAM - from CDC (https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=86444014)



## Requirements
The main requirements are listed below:

- Tested with Tensorflow 
- OpenCV 4.2.0
- Python 3.6
- Numpy
- Scikit-Learn
- Matplotlib

Additional requirements to generate dataset:

- PyDicom
- Pandas
- Jupyter/CoLab

## Data
In ML good quality data is key. The datasets are contructed from:

- https://github.com/ieee8023/covid-chestxray-dataset
- https://www.kaggle.com/c/rsna-pneumonia-detection-challenge (which came from: https://nihcc.app.box.com/v/ChestXray-NIHCC)

The obtain the dateset with covid-19 images I cloned the repository and dowloaded the metadata.csv and /images/ folder into a folder /covid-chest-xray/ in my goggle drive '/content/drive/My Drive/covid-chest-xray/'
To obtain the dataset for the normal x-rays I dowloaded the rsna pneumonia dataset and dowloaded the data into a folder '/pneumonia-chest-xray/' in my goggle drive. 

Those two those datasets were then combined into a directory with covid x-rays ['/data/covid'](data/covid) and non-covid x-rays ['/data/normal'](data/normal)  

## Inspect the Metadata of the Covid-19 dataset
The [metadata](metadata.csv) from the Covid dataset has interesting information about the images like findings (COVID, SARS, MERS, PNEuMONIA among others) sex, age, survival, or views. The set I am intereste is the Posteroanterior view (PA) and findinds : Covid-19. 

## PROCESSING

 - 1 Build a normal ['/data/normal'](data/normal) and covid-19 xray['/data/covid'](data/covid) datasets
 - 2 Preprocess data by changing color and reshaping to (224,224) , default input size for the model
 - 3 Normalizing for deep learning and perform one-hot 
 - 4 Build the train and the test sets 


## MODELING 

Create a Convolutional Neural Network using Keras, TensorFlow and deep learning in Google Colab. 

- 1 load the VGG16 network https://keras.io/applications/#vgg16
- 2 model is compiled using Adam optimizer and fit using 10 epocs

 ![](images/Training.PNG)

## EVALUATION AND PREDICTION

- 1 Model was tested with unseen data with a precission of 96% 
- 2 The model was saved using HDF5 binary format

![](images/ClassReport.PNG)

The model has an accuracy of 96% based only on x-ray images and no other feature. Sensitivity of 96 % and specificity of 95% means that from patients that HAVE COVID-19 the model accurately identify them as positive in 96% of the cases. From patients that do NOT HAVE COVID-19, the model identified as covid negative 96 % of the time. 

![](images/SensSpec.PNG)

As always how good or bad is any diagnosis tool depends on the context that is used. In this case it will be really bad if the model missed a covid-19 positive and goes home thinking is negative and spreads the infection further. 

[loss: 0.2678 - accuracy: 0.9565]

##  CHECK YOUR OWN XRAY IMAGES

The last part is meant to allow to check x-ray images for covid-19. This is what I did: 
 
- 1 I dowloaded some images on my Google Drive. In this exaple I donwloaded an image Case courtesy of Dr Fabio Macori, Radiopaedia.org. From the case rID: 74887  
![](images/covid-19-pneumonia-14.png)

- 2 load the image to CoLab, and performed image preprocess (color conversion, re-sizing, and scaling)
- 3 re-shaping array 
- 4 load the model and do prediction  

In our case it was able to predict positive to a image that actually was positive!!!




Credits
This notebook is based on the tutorial [here](https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2020/03/16/detecting-covid-19-in-x-ray-images-with-keras-tensorflow-and-deep-learning/)
and this paper [here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.09871v3.pdf) and tons of medium articles 


## Contact

* Marina Marinkovic / PdeM: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/marinamarinkovic/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/MPdeM)
